FAQ Entries - Part D (#2624)
dafny-lang/dafny: docs/HowToFAQ/FAQModifiesOne.md

---
title: Is there a way to specify that all fields of an object, except a given one, don’t change?
---

## Question

Is there a way to specify that all fields of an object, except a given one, don’t change?

## Answer

Instead of writing `modifies this` or `modifies o`, you can write ``modifies this`f``

> to indicate that just the field `f` of `this` may be assigned to.

Author: Reworded

## Answer

> Instead of writing `modifies this` or `modifies o`, you can write ``modifies this`f`` of ``modifies `f``
> to indicate that just the field `f` of `this` may be assigned to. Similarly you can use 
> ``modifies a`f`` for fields of other objects.

Reviewer: The first sentence uses both `this` and `o` as examples, but then the `o` is not one of the two alternatives later in the sentence. I suggest:

```suggestion
Instead of writing `modifies this` or `modifies o`, you can write ``modifies this`f`` (equivalently ``modifies `f``)
or ``modifies o`f``
to indicate that just the field `f` of `this` or `o`, respectively, may be assigned to.
```
